# Face Generation (Project 5)

Project 5 is the final project of the series, which involves training a Generative Adversarial Network (GAN) to generate new faces. GANs have two parts: a generator and a discriminator. A generator's goal is to generate fake images that fool the discriminator, and the discriminator's goal is to determine if an image is fake or real. I built a Deep Convolutional GAN (DCGAN), where both G and D were built with 3 convolutions and one fully connected layer. The network was trained on both the MNIST handwriting dataset and the CelebFaces dataset, images scaled down to sizes of 28x28.

GANs are notoriously difficult to get good results, as they are quite sensitive to their hyperparameters. I was able to get decent results with some convolutional layers with batch normalization, but it wasn't satisfactory. The discriminator was a bit too powerful to get the generator to learn past a certain point. I had to improve upon this by using Xavier initialization for the convolutional layers, a deeper network for the generator, applying dropout, and applying one-sided label smoothing to the discriminator to increase noise. These changes made the generator competitive with the discriminator, further improving results.

In the end, the results were pretty good. ~25% the faces generated looked a bit wonky (not by too much), but the other ~75% looked quite like a normal face. I have noticed that between batches, the generated faces fluctuate in style, e.g., all faces get darker, all faces get redder, most faces get black eyes. My guess is that there's too much noise in the generator, and that it should be reduced after a certain point so that the faces resist changing too much.

It's hard to tell most of the generated faces apart from the real faces. I'm quite impressed that the generator learned these faces just from white noise.
